Voting Steps:

1.On election day, go to the Polling Station with your Voter ID card and join the queue if any. Please don’t jump the queue
2. A polling assistant will check your particulars in the name reference list
3.A verification officer will verify your identity as a registered voter with the verification machine.
4. You will be issued with a Presidential Ballot paper. Please check to see if it has no marks on it. Also, ensure it has the validating stamp.
4.Make your way to the Voting Booth and thumbprint (correctly) your choice of candidate.
5.Cast your vote in the Presidential Ballot Box. Please make sure it’s the right box
6.Proceed to the next Polling Assistant for a Parliamentary Ballot Paper
7.Proceed to the Parliamentary Voting Booth and thumbprint (correctly) your choice of MP
8.Cast your ballot in the Parliamentary Voting Box. Please make sure it is in the correct box or it will be rejected.
9.Please leave the Polling Station after voting. You can return at 5 pm for the count.

Do's and Don'ts

Vote during elections
Vote only once in a particular election
Don't engage in multiple voting
Keep your voter's ID card safe
Avoid undue influence
Leave the polling station after casting your vote
Avoid impersonation
Keep your secret
Be law-abiding at the polling station
Give other voters the chance to vote
Encourage other voters to participate in elections
Abstain from bribery

Proxy Voting

Anyone who is registered can apply for a proxy vote. You are required to provide a reason for absence when you apply for a proxy vote.

You can apply for a proxy vote on the following criteria:

Illness or disability: You have an illness or physical condition that prevents you to go to the polling station on election day.

Employment or military service. Your work prevents you to go to the polling station on election day.

Education. Your attendance in an educational course prevents you from going to the polling station on election day.

Absence due to Personal Reasons. You are unable to go to your local polling station on election day. For example, if you are away on holiday.

Overseas: You are a Ghanaian citizen living overseas.
